PIPELINE.md, before:

# Pipeline docs

## Structure of this repo

**TODO: REVISE**

## Data pipeline

This section describes the workflow of the data pipeline.

(RAW) -> (PREPROCESSED) -> (DATASETS) -> (APPDATA)

Overview:

| **Step** | **Directory**         | **Description**                          | **Rule(s) for this target** | **Cfg section** |
|:--------:|-----------------------|------------------------------------------|-----------------------------|-----------------|
|    0     | store/0_raw/          | Raw data as downloaded                   |                             |                 |
|    1     | store/1_preprocessed/ | Preprocessed data ()                     |                             |                 |
|    2     | store/2_datasets/     | Datasets, created from preprocessed data |                             |                 |
|    3     | store/3_appdata/      | Data ready to be used in the app         |                             |                 |

In the following each step is shortly described along a common example use
case. 

### (0) Raw

Immutable raw data as downloaded with description and metadata.

Template with further details:
[digipipe/store/0_raw/.TEMPLATE/.dataset.md](digipipe/store/0_raw/.TEMPLATE/.dataset.md)

> **Example:**
> 1. ERA5 weather dataset for Germany
> 2. MaStR dataset on renewable generators
> 3. Shapefile of region of interest

### (1) Preprocessed

Data that has undergone some preprocesing such as:
 - Archive extracted
 - CRS transformed (see below for CRS conventions)
 - Fields filtered
 - **But NO merging/combining/clipping of multiple (raw) datasets! This can be 
   done in (2)**

Note: Name MUST be the same as in `0_raw`.

Template with further details:
[digipipe/store/1_preprocessed/.TEMPLATE/.dataset.md](digipipe/store/1_preprocessed/.TEMPLATE/.dataset.md)

> **Example:**
> 1. Extracted ERA5 weather dataset for Germany
> 2. Wind energy turbines extracted from MaStR dataset, filter for columns
>    power and geometry
> 3. Region of interest converted to Geopackage file, CRS transformed

### (2) Datasets

Datasets, created from preprocessed datasets. Here you are free to do what you
want.

Template with further details:
[digipipe/store/2_datasets/.TEMPLATE/.dataset.md](digipipe/store/2_datasets/.TEMPLATE/.dataset.md)

> **Example:**
> 
> Using the preprocessed datssets from above:
> 1. Wind energy turbines in the region of interest (datasets 2-3)
> 2. Normalized wind energy feedin timeseries for the region (datasets 1-3)
> 3. Mean wind speed in the region (datasets 1 and 3)

### (3) App data

**TODO: REVISE**

Data ready to be used in the app / as expected by the app.

### Temporary files

**TODO: REVISE**

Temporary files are stored in `store/temp/` by default and, depending on your
configuration, can get quite large.  You can change the directory in
`config.yml` -> `path` -> `temp`.

## Further notes

### Coordinate reference system

Please use LAEA Europe (EPSG:3035) as default CRS when writing geodata.

**TODO: REVISE**

- The files in `store/converted/` can have an arbitrary CRS.
- In the preprocessing (Step 3) it is converted to the CRS specified in the global `config.yml` -> `preprocessing` -> 
  `crs`. It is important to use a equal-area CRS to make sure operations such as buffering work properly. By default,
  it is set to LAEA Europe (EPSG:3035).
- The final output is written in CRS specified in the global `config.yml` -> `output` -> `crs`. By default, it is set
  to WGS84 (EPSG:4326) used by the app.

## HowTos

### Add a new dataset

**TODO: REVISE**

Commit message:

Extend description of data flow in pipeline readme

PIPELINE.md, after:

# Pipeline docs

## Structure of this repo

**TODO: REVISE**

## Data pipeline

This section describes the workflow of the data pipeline.

(RAW) -> (PREPROCESSED) -> (DATASETS) -> (APPDATA)

Overview:

| **Step** | **Directory**         | **Description**                  | **Rule(s) for this target** | **Cfg section** |
|:--------:|-----------------------|----------------------------------|-----------------------------|-----------------|
|    0     | store/0_raw/          | Raw data as downloaded           |                             |                 |
|    1     | store/1_preprocessed/ | Preprocessed data, 1:1 from (0)  |                             |                 |
|    2     | store/2_datasets/     | Datasets, n:1 from (1) and (2)   |                             |                 |
|    3     | store/3_appdata/      | Data ready to be used in the app |                             |                 |

In the following each step is shortly described along a common example use
case.

**Example data flow:**

![example data flow](docs/img/datasets/pipeline_dataflow_example.png)

### (0) Raw

Immutable raw data as downloaded with description and metadata.

Template with further details:
[digipipe/store/0_raw/.TEMPLATE/.dataset.md](digipipe/store/0_raw/.TEMPLATE/.dataset.md)

> **Example:**
> - Dataset A: ERA5 weather dataset for Germany
> - Dataset B: MaStR dataset on renewable generators
> - Dataset C: Shapefile of region of interest

### (1) Preprocessed

Data from `(0) Raw`  that has undergone some preprocesing such as:
 - Archive extracted
 - CRS transformed (see below for CRS conventions)
 - Fields filtered
 - **But NO merging/combining/clipping of multiple (raw) datasets! This can be 
   done in (2)**

Note: Name MUST be the same as in `0_raw`.

Template with further details:
[digipipe/store/1_preprocessed/.TEMPLATE/.dataset.md](digipipe/store/1_preprocessed/.TEMPLATE/.dataset.md)

> **Example:**
> - Dataset D: Extracted ERA5 weather dataset for Germany (from dataset A)
> - Dataset E: Wind energy turbines extracted from MaStR dataset, filter for
>   columns power and geometry (from dataset B)
> - Dataset F: Region of interest converted to Geopackage file, CRS
>   transformed (from dataset C)

### (2) Datasets

Datasets, created from arbitrary combinations of datasets from
`(1) Preprocessed` and/or `(2) Datasets`.

Template with further details:
[digipipe/store/2_datasets/.TEMPLATE/.dataset.md](digipipe/store/2_datasets/.TEMPLATE/.dataset.md)

> **Example:**
> 
> Using datasets from (1) and (2):
> - Dataset G: Wind energy turbines in the region of interest (from datasets E+F)
> - Dataset H: Normalized wind energy feedin timeseries for the region (from
>   datasets D+G)
> - Dataset I: Region of interest (from dataset F)

### (3) App data

**TODO: REVISE**

Data ready to be used in the app / as expected by the app.

### Temporary files

**TODO: REVISE**

Temporary files are stored in `store/temp/` by default and, depending on your
configuration, can get quite large.  You can change the directory in
`config.yml` -> `path` -> `temp`.

## Further notes

### Coordinate reference system

Please use LAEA Europe (EPSG:3035) as default CRS when writing geodata.

**TODO: REVISE**

- The files in `store/converted/` can have an arbitrary CRS.
- In the preprocessing (Step 3) it is converted to the CRS specified in the global `config.yml` -> `preprocessing` -> 
  `crs`. It is important to use a equal-area CRS to make sure operations such as buffering work properly. By default,
  it is set to LAEA Europe (EPSG:3035).
- The final output is written in CRS specified in the global `config.yml` -> `output` -> `crs`. By default, it is set
  to WGS84 (EPSG:4326) used by the app.

## HowTos

### Add a new dataset

**TODO: REVISE**
