docs/sections/structure.rst, before:

.. _structure_label:

Struktur des Repos
==================

Das Repository ist wie folgt aufgebaut:

.. code-block::

    .
    ├── digipipe
    │   ├── config
    │   │   └── global.yml                          # Global config
    │   ├── logs                                    # Place for log files
    │   ├── scenarios                               # Scenario definition
    │   │   ├── .TEMPLATE                           # - Template
    │   │   └── SCENARIOS.md
    │   ├── scripts                                 # Main scripts
    │   │   ├── esm                                 # - for energy system modelling
    │   │   ├── config.py                           # - config-related functions
    │   │   └── geo.py                              # - spatial functions
    │   ├── store                                   # Data store
    │   │   ├── appdata                             # - App-ready data
    │   │   │   ├── data
    │   │   │   ├── metadata
    │   │   │   └── scenarios
    │   │   ├── datasets                            # - Processed datasets
    │   │   │   ├── bkg_vg250_districts_abw
    │   │   │   ├── bkg_vg250_muns_abw
    │   │   │   ├── bkg_vg250_region_abw
    │   │   │   ├── osm_forest
    │   │   │   ├── .TEMPLATE
    │   │   │   └── module.smk
    │   │   ├── preprocessed                        # - Preprocessed datasets
    │   │   │   ├── bkg_vg250
    │   │   │   ├── osm_filtered
    │   │   │   ├── .TEMPLATE
    │   │   │   └── module.smk
    │   │   ├── raw                                 # - Raw datasets
    │   │   │   ├── bkg_vg250
    │   │   │   ├── destatis_gv
    │   │   │   ├── osm_sachsen-anhalt
    │   │   │   └── .TEMPLATE
    │   │   ├── temp                                # - Temporary files
    │   │   ├── DATASETS.md
    │   │   └── utils.py
    │   └── workflow
    │       ├── Snakefile                           # Main snakefile
    │       ├── utils.py
    │       └── WORKFLOW.md
    ├── docs                                        # Documentation
    │   ├── sections
    │   │   ├── data.rst
    │   │   ├── installation.rst
    │   │   ├── scenarios.rst
    │   │   ├── structure.rst
    │   │   └── workflow.rst
    │   ├── conf.py
    │   ├── index.rst
    │   └── Makefile
    ├── tests
    ├── CHANGELOG.md
    ├── CONTRIBUTING.md
    ├── environment.yml
    ├── LICENSE
    ├── README.md
    ├── requirements.txt
    └── setup.py


Erstellt mit:
.. code-block::

    tree --dirsfirst -L 4 -a -I '__*|*log|.gitkeep|PKG-INFO|*egg-info*|img|.git|.idea|venv|.snakemake' . > dirtree.txt

Commit message:

Add shared mastr functions for: cleansing, voltage level, geom

docs/sections/structure.rst, after:

.. _structure_label:

Struktur des Repos
==================

Das Repository ist wie folgt aufgebaut:

.. code-block::

    .
    ├── digipipe
    │   ├── config
    │   │   └── global.yml                          # Global config
    │   ├── logs                                    # Place for log files
    │   ├── scenarios                               # Scenario definition
    │   │   ├── .TEMPLATE                           # - Template
    │   │   └── SCENARIOS.md
    │   ├── scripts                                 # Main scripts
    │   │   ├── datasets                            # - for data processing which is shared by different datasets
    │   │   ├── esm                                 # - for energy system modelling
    │   │   ├── config.py                           # - config-related functions
    │   │   └── geo.py                              # - spatial functions
    │   ├── store                                   # Data store
    │   │   ├── appdata                             # - App-ready data
    │   │   │   ├── data
    │   │   │   ├── metadata
    │   │   │   └── scenarios
    │   │   ├── datasets                            # - Processed datasets
    │   │   │   ├── bkg_vg250_districts_abw
    │   │   │   ├── bkg_vg250_muns_abw
    │   │   │   ├── bkg_vg250_region_abw
    │   │   │   ├── osm_forest
    │   │   │   ├── .TEMPLATE
    │   │   │   └── module.smk
    │   │   ├── preprocessed                        # - Preprocessed datasets
    │   │   │   ├── bkg_vg250
    │   │   │   ├── osm_filtered
    │   │   │   ├── .TEMPLATE
    │   │   │   └── module.smk
    │   │   ├── raw                                 # - Raw datasets
    │   │   │   ├── bkg_vg250
    │   │   │   ├── destatis_gv
    │   │   │   ├── osm_sachsen-anhalt
    │   │   │   └── .TEMPLATE
    │   │   ├── temp                                # - Temporary files
    │   │   ├── DATASETS.md
    │   │   └── utils.py
    │   └── workflow
    │       ├── Snakefile                           # Main snakefile
    │       ├── utils.py
    │       └── WORKFLOW.md
    ├── docs                                        # Documentation
    │   ├── sections
    │   │   ├── data.rst
    │   │   ├── installation.rst
    │   │   ├── scenarios.rst
    │   │   ├── structure.rst
    │   │   └── workflow.rst
    │   ├── conf.py
    │   ├── index.rst
    │   └── Makefile
    ├── tests
    ├── CHANGELOG.md
    ├── CONTRIBUTING.md
    ├── environment.yml
    ├── LICENSE
    ├── README.md
    ├── requirements.txt
    └── setup.py


Erstellt mit:
.. code-block::

    tree --dirsfirst -L 4 -a -I '__*|*log|.gitkeep|PKG-INFO|*egg-info*|img|.git|.idea|venv|.snakemake' . > dirtree.txt
